in Fort Worth. What is today's date? The 16th of
August.
I'd like to ask you first if you will donate this
tape and the material on this tape to Texas A&M
University Oral History Collection. I'd be very
happy to donate this tape and the contents of it to
Texas A&M University. Great. Now let's start out
with Where and when you were born? You were born in
1912 right here in Fort Worth. Could you tell me
about your parents? Yes. My father was a very
hardworking individual. He pursued most of his,
all of his adult life in the industrial supply
business. And in 1932, he came at the request of his
sister, Mrs. Charles F. Adams, and helped her run
her business, which was left in her laps by the
death of her husband, Charles Francis Adams. And
my mother was a descendant from German parentage.
Her mother and father both came directly from
Germany to the United States.
they came separately and they met in South Bend,
Indiana and came to Fort Worth with a group of
German families. They actually came in a wagon
train from South Bend, Indiana to Fort Worth and
her parents, her father was in the brick
He built it very, very close to the Trinity River.
And in a very severe flood,
I guess in the early 1900s, the brickyard was
washed away. But not before he had furnished the
bricks to build the original Swift & Company and
Armour & Company packing plants. Really? Which
were in Fort Worth and really established Fort
Worth as a great packing house center. And his
brick plant was washed away. When was this, the
turn of the century?
I guess it was in the early 1900s. I'm not real sure
when the first of the Swifton Company and the
Armoring Company packing house plants were
built. they have in the past few years have started
to be torn down. The debris and the partially
demolished Swifton Company plant is still
standing out on north side Fort Worth. And it
burned after it had been closed down and then it was
demolished. But we went out two, three years ago
and retrieved some of the bricks, some of the
original bricks and keep them as mementos of some
of our early family life. But my father, after
he joined Mrs. Adams in this business that I run
today and I'm the principal owner of, he was an
outstanding salesman. He could absolutely sell,
I think he could sell bikinis at the North Pole sell
fur coats in Panama. He was terrific and had a very,
very wide acquaintance and following in the
Southwest, the whole Southwest. What kind of man
was he, besides being a good salesman? He was a big
guy, a very happy individual, and made friends
very, very easily.
Well, I think he was a pretty good guy, really. And
it's been a real pleasure to me since coming back to
Texas to occasionally meet someone that knew him
and the nice things they say about him. So it's a
pretty good legacy to have people tell you what a
nice guy your dad was and so forth. So I really, I
guess in the last 10 years, I've grown fonder of him
than I think I was prior to that time. He passed away
in 67. No,
I'm sorry. He passed away in 66. That was before I
retired. And I was on a trip. I had seen him about
two months before.
And then I was on a trip. I was in San Francisco when I
learned of his death and I flew directly into here.
Can you tell me about your mother? My mother was a
very,
very nice person, very good person. She was a
generous person. She had a lot of, a lot of Germanic
characteristics and was a very strict
disciplinarian. I guess that's her Prussian
heritage. Was she from the Prussian area? Well,
she was born in this country and born, matter of
fact, born in Fort Worth. But her mother... But her
mother was from the Prussian area? Yeah, they very
definitely, her mother, quite a story behind her
mother's family. And her father came from
Bingen on the Rhine River. And he was a tradesman.
His whole family were tradesmen. I think they were
brickmakers in Germany, or makers of tile and
brick in Germany. Her mother's family was from
East Prussia. the eastern part of Prussia, and her
mother's mother, which would be my mother's
grandmother, was actually, it was reported, and I
don't know this for a fact, but just from things
that I remember my mother's mother saying, and I
used to, she lived with us in the last years of her
life, and she spoke
native tongue. And she and her husband formed a
German church here in Fort Worth. A
congregational German church. And during the
First World War, they had to stop having services
because of so much German, anti-German feeling.
And after World War I, they resumed the German
services in the church once a month. And I They say
that I spoke German before I spoke English. I spoke
German when I was three or four years old. I don't
really have a conscious recollection of speaking
German, but they say I spoke German when I was three
or four years old. And then way back in my
subconscious was this child of three or four years
old vocabulary of German. understanding or a
knowledge of it and I know in my some of my brief
usages and opportunity to use it in Germany during
the war in
asking directions and so
in German, if it was very simple that a child would
know or know about, I would understand it. Or if
they spoke very fast, I couldn't get any of it. And I
would always say to them, ,, speak more slowly,
please. And I would understand what a child of four
years old might understand.
that was made very, very, very noticeable to me.
Let's stop here for now. Could you tell me about
about your parents a little bit more
specifically? Were they religious people? Who
was the authority in the household? Could you tell
me about that? I would say that my mother was the
authority in the household. Now, they were of
average following and belief. We went to church
regularly. I grew up going to Sunday school and so
forth. But they weren't devoutly religious. Were
they interested in politics? No, no. My father was
not interested in politics and neither was my
mother. Did they vote usually for one party versus
another? Yes, they usually voted, primarily
voted I believe Democratic, but quite often voted
Republican for the man, for the individual. Would
you, did you consider them either conservatives
or liberals or moderates? Conservatives,
definitely conservatives, yeah. Now you became a
general and throughout your career, what do you
think, what What contribution do you think that
your parents made in your future success?
A sense of integrity and
honesty.
And I think
doing a little bit more than it was expected of you.
To me, extra effort. is the
number one characteristic that I believe would
help almost anybody do a job better than the PAC.
And it's something that often some of your peers
may say that, well, you're a brown noser
It's just having a sense of belonging or a sense of
owning and trying to do a job and not being a
perfectionist because we're all subject to human
faculties and making mistakes. But I think if you
put forth extra effort and I know my dad was always
enthusiastic about everything. And I've always
had that characteristic too. And I think
enthusiasm and extra effort are the two greatest
characteristics that a human can have. Let's
start in about your education. Where'd you go to
school? I went to the primary schools here in Fort
Worth and to high school. So you had a public
education? Public education all the way. No
private education. education at all. I was a good
student, a very good student. One of the top in the
class? It was easy for me. Yes, I would say I was in
grade schools and high school. I was in the top 3% of
the class. I didn't do that well at A&M. I don't
really know why. I never really thought about it. I
had a lot of outside activities. I worked hard at
football. I was not an athlete. I had very little
natural athletic ability. I know Matty Bell told
me, he said I had less native ability as a football
player than any player he ever saw. But I played
nine months out of the year down at school. I played
intramural and then spring training. And so I
worked real hard because I wanted to be a good
football player. And I did make one letter,
finally. Did you play high school football or any
other sports? I played high school football,
yeah. Did you play other sports in high school?
Baseball. And I played baseball on the freshman
team at A&M. And the coach, I forget the bastard's
name, but in one of the inter-squad games, I struck
out. I was the first baseman, and I loved playing
baseball. And I struck out, and that bastard cut me
off of the squad and just broke my heart. And they
had no damn reason. I was better first baseman than
the guy he kept, a big, tall guy from McKinney,
Texas. But that really was a blow to me when that guy
cut me off of the fish baseball team at A&M. I didn't
go out for freshman football at A&M because I just
didn't think I was good enough. So I played
intramural football on the second battalion
artillery team and did real well. Made two, three
touchdowns. That was in the end. And of course the
coaches all watched the intramural games for
potential. So lo and behold, as a result of the
intramural, why they asked me to come out for the
varsity in the fall, which I did, which I thought
was a big honor. No kidding. And
the only course I ever busted anywhere, the only
course I ever failed, was at A&M in strength of
materials by Professor Long, C.D. Long, who was in
my class. His brother was a professor in the M.E.
department. And I think that he and I got cross
ways. I don't think I really busted a chord. I think
he busted me because he felt that I hadn't put forth
the effort that I should have or that I could have,
and then I, that I didn't show the potential that I
should. That's the only course I ever busted. Were
you popular in high school? Yeah, fairly popular.
Were you a leader? Were you a leader of any
organizations? I'm always wondering when
generals, who of course have positions of
leadership, started to become leaders. Yeah, I
was a leader of, we had Oh, several clubs. Then
during the grade school years and early high
school years, we were pretty strong here in Fort
Worth in calisthenics. And you know, they don't do
that anymore, but I remember we used to, every day,
the class or two or three classes get together, the
gym classes would, and go through a routine of sort
of drill calisthenics. And he even had a long rod,
kind of like a curtain rod, that we'd used. All
sorts of shapes and routines. And I was, I was
picked as a leader several times in those, for
those things. But I was not a joiner. I didn't join a
lot of things in a lot of clubs, because I and I never
had a whole lot of money. Our family was never,
never destitute. We were never, you know, overly
flushed with money. My father made a I guess a
better than average salary when he worked in the
early days in industrial supply as a as a salesman
and later as a sales manager for a company here in
Fort Warren. But Well, I wouldn't say I was any hot
shot leader in school. No, not particularly. Why
were you popular? Why was I popular?
I didn't have any enemies, per se. I wasn't
prejudiced against and didn't really go out of my
way to harass anybody. I was just trying to be a
pretty good guy. And I was fairly popular with the
gals, not extremely popular,
but I had a lot of girlfriends.
When you graduated from high school, is that about
1929 or 1930? Yeah, 1929. 1929. When you graduated
from high school, did you have a firm set of aims?
Did you know what you wanted to do? Yeah, I sure did.
I wanted to be a petroleum engineer and that's what
I wanted to do. Well no, first I wanted to be an
army aviator. Oh really? And I had applied. So is
that the first time that you ever thought about the
military? I guess so.
Randolph Field to be admitted to Randolph. In
those days it was Randolph for primary and Kelly
for the secondary. So my senior year in the spring I
had made application and I was ordered down to
Galveston. There was a little Army Air Corps base
at Galveston and a board convened down there to
examine the candidates for the Army Air Corps and
about 15 of us went down from A&M down to Galveston
and went before the board and physical exams and so
forth and I passed everything except the physical
and they said that I had eye fatigue and that
someday I would have to wear glasses and They
didn't think that I could do, you know, precision
flying and so forth and so on. So, that was a real big
disappointment to me. And before that though, I
had already learned to fly. Oh really? Yeah,
because one year for my junior year in this for the
half year, for the second, in 1932. See, I started
out with a class of 33, but I finished up with a class
of 34 because I dropped out half a year. I had an
illness. I guess I was overworked or something. I
just fell apart. I don't know if it was mono or what
the hell. But before the end of this, I had, for the
second half in 32, but just a few days before I would
have lost credit or given a D for everything, I
dropped out of school. I thought it was the best,
and the doctors thought it was the best. So I
dropped out, and I came home, and I went to work over
here in this business for Mr. Adams. He hadn't
passed away yet. And
I worked out in the shop making cup leathers. See,
we actually have two businesses here. We're a
little manufacturing business that we carry on,
and we're a gasket cutter as well. And then we are
manufacturer's reps, where we represent
manufacturers in the Southwest. In the last few
years, I've started a little oil company in
addition. We've got actually three businesses
going out here now. But anyway, I worked over here.
And I got started going out to Meacham Field.
And taking flying lessons. And I soloed. And I
worked for a guy out there that had a little flying
school. He had Richie. I'd work for him in the
afternoon for three or four hours. And instead of
taking pay, I'd take it out in flying time. and he'd
give me maybe 15 or 20 minutes of instruction for
three or four hours of work. And I'd service the
airplanes for him, little Arrancas and little
Curtis Robins. So I learned to fly and I had all, at
the time we took the exam for Randolph, I had about
75 hours I guess of time. So you were about a junior
then at A&M when you took the exam? Yeah, yeah. And
so that was a big, big blow to me. But after I
graduated that
summer,
division office out in Crane, Texas, out in West
Texas. Well before we get to that, let's go back,
let's go back a little bit. In other words, the
Depression didn't hurt your family that much. Not
at all, not at all. We, the Depression didn't hurt
our family at all. My father was gainfully
employed all during the Depression and we
certainly never, never suffered at all in the
Depression. I think my dad, there was a bank
failure here in Fort Worth. A couple of banks
failed. One of them failed. He had a checking
account and a small savings account in it. As far as
I know, that was the only severe monetary setback
as a result of the Depression. And then, too,
During the early 30s, I was down at A&M. Sure. We
didn't really, I didn't really suffer then. I did a
lot of work. I worked in the mess hall. And
I had the midnight mail concession for a while. You
know what the midnight mail is? No. Well, I don't
know where they still- Oh, is that the train coming
by? I don't know if they still do that or not. In
those days, it finally became a football and I got
it kind of a quasi football job. But in each
dormitory, and we had about 14 of them in those
days, 12 I guess counting them. Yeah, some of them
are torn down now. But anyway, we had a mailbox in
each one of these dormitories.
And guys, alongside this box was another little
box with half envelopes. So if during the night you
wanted to get off a letter and be sure it got out that
night and you wrote it, say, after supper, you
could take your letter with a stamp on it, put it in
one of those half envelopes, drop a nickel in the
half envelope, and then drop it in the box, the
midnight mail box. And about 11.30 went around,
opened all those boxes up, took the nickels they
had, and go down to the railroad station, and we
mailed them on the train, on the OWL, the train out
of Houston towards Dallas, Fort Worth. And mailed
all of them on that eastbound train, on that
northbound train. And then that northbound train
sorted the mail and inhearned anything that was
for Houston and southbound traffic, they put it
off of that train and gave it to the southbound
train, which they met up with in Heard. And that was
called a midnight mail. So you collected nickels
then? The first year I had that, I did it myself
every night. And collect those nickels. And every
night you'd get, oh 20, 25, or 30,
or before a big football game or something, hell
you might get 50 or 60 nickels. Two, three, or four
dollars. And a couple of nights raining real hard.
Instead of walking down the railroad station, I
mailed them in the Y.
But it was quite a, quite a little deal. And then
next year,
And I gave him a guaranteed a dollar a night just to
go get the mail and take it down and mail it. It was a
good deal for him. It was a good deal for me. I
trusted him. But no, the depression never
really, you know, we didn't suffer. We had a lot of
fun. Many times I hitchhiked to Houston with 50
cents in my pocket. Now, when you went to A&M, did
you already make up your mind that you want to be a
patrolling engineer, and is that why you went? Yes
and no. It's really quite strange. I had wanted to
go to A&M. Why? But the summer, I liked the
military, and I'd seen the Corps trips come up here
and the guys parading and everything.
him by his tails. He had been a first sergeant and a
cavalry troop from Pennsylvania volunteers that
saw duty after the Civil War even in Texas out in
Fort Concho in San Angelo. So I was pretty much
wanted to go to a military school, but after I got
out of high school one of my relatives, a relative
of was one of the big wheels out of Texas Tech. And he
wanted me to come out there and said I would get a
scholarship and get a job and everything. So I
reluctantly went
And I got a job and they were going to give me a
partial scholarship and I got a job working in
either a Piggly Wiggly or Safeway or one of the
supermarkets. Found a place to live temporarily
until the dormitories opened and I was really set
up. Real, real good. And the lady that I had a room
with had a couple of daughters my age and they were
in
age. But some sand started to set in and the sand got
to blowing and goddamn it blew for days and days and
I said to hell with this noise I'm going to A&M. So I
quit my job got on the damn train with my trunks and I
went to College Station passed through Fort Worth
never called my folks or anything got off of the
damn train at College Station, and one of the night
sergeants was down there, and I think it was about
seven or eight o'clock in the evening, and he said,
you're a little early, it was about three weeks
before school started, and I told him, I said,
well, I'm coming, I just came in from Lovell, and he
said, well, you can't spend the night down here, he
said, come on, put your bag up on this dolly. You
know, one of those express wagons, big four-wheel
wagons. And he said, I'll help you pull it up here.
And we pulled it up the street there, and he stopped
over by Law and Pervier Hall. And he said, let's
throw your trunk off here. He says, you take the
wagon back to the station. And... by the time you
get back I'll have a key and I'll let you, I'll put
you in one of these rooms here in the first stoop of
law, I guess it was. So I did, I pulled a goddamn
wagon back down to the station and he wanted to know
if I'd eaten and I said no. He said well, he said the
only thing that's open is a little store down here
and he showed me where that was and you can go down
there and get a sandwich. He said, you can stay over
here. He said, there's no sheets or anything, just
the beds with mattresses. But the water's on. You
can stay in there tonight. He said, tomorrow you go
up to the commandant's office
and tell them who you are and what you want to do and
everything. So he was a real nice guy. I saw him many
times after that. I don't remember his name. But he
was kind of an elderly gentleman, a real kind
fellow. So he really got me started off in great
fashion. And the next morning, I had no trouble
that night. He opened the door for me and
everything. Next morning, bright and early, I was
up in the main building there, the old main
building. The Commandant's office before they
opened. I was standing on the outside waiting. And
the Assistant Commandant, the Commandant was a
military guy, Nelson, Bull Nelson. But the
assistant commandant was a civilian, Johnny,
God, I can't remember his name. But of all the
things, he knew my father. No kidding. Yeah. From
some, he met him someplace and had seen him two or
three times after that. So when I was standing
there at the door and he unlocked the door and one of
the ladies
And then I said, well, come on in. He said, you're a
little early. So, after I told him my story and
everything, well, they were really intrigued
with it. And he said, well, he said, you have any
money? I said, well, I've got a little bit, not a
whole lot, but I'd like to get a job. And he said,
well, we'll just see if we can't put you to work
doing something. So, it was about two weeks before
school started. So he said, we just got from the
printers the new house rules that we want
everybody to live by. We've got to have a copy
nailed in every room on the campus, nailed on the
back of the front door. There were actually two
little cards. So he said, you can do that. And he
said, you have to go in every room every room and
every dormitory, and nail these on the back of the
door. He said, that'll take you at least a week, I
know. So after you finish that, and he gave me all
the stuff and everything, hammer and a little
tacks. So I started in, and hell, in about five
days, I was finished. So they gave me some other
jobs to do. So anyway, to make a long story short, I
worked. And before registration, he let me
register early and everything. And they paid me 70
cents an hour, I believe. 70 cents? Yeah. That's
fantastic. Yeah. That's a lot of money with a
minimum wage of 25 cents. Sure was. Sure was. Paid
me 70 cents an hour for going around tacking up all
of those cards and all the rooms and everything. So
that was enough to, you know, to pay for my food and
everything. A few days there. What outfit were you
put in in the Corps? F-Artillery. And it was a, I was
a charter member because they just organized it
that year. And
it, I, you know, it was a real, real good start and a
real good experience.
By luck, the good Lord had his arms around me that
Johnny, it wasn't Johnny Mitchell, no, I'll think
of it, I'll recall it here in a minute. Anyway, he,
you know, the fact that he knew, knew my father and
knew my family was bound to have helped in some way.
If I'd have been a total cold stranger, I might not
have gotten the consideration and everything
that I did. But I was, my mind was pretty much made up
that if I couldn't be a military aviator that I
wanted to go ahead and work and be a petroleum
engineer. And I never changed from that and I had a
kind of a fallback that if I didn't go the petroleum
end of it that I'd be a chemical engineer. And the
first
But after my sophomore year with geology,
historical geology, and a couple of the
professors that I had, I was definitely sold that I
wanted to be a patrol engineer. What did you like
about the Corps of Cadets? What did I like about it?
I guess I liked the military routine. I liked the
idea in those days that, you know, we had
formations for meals. And I would always get a big
charge in the evenings at retreat. We'd just stay
in retreat and march to the mess hall. And later,
when I was working in the mess hall and waiting
tables on the training table, well of course I
wasn't in formation, I'd walk down ahead of time
and after I went out my junior and senior year when I
was waiting on a training table I never really did
anything just all I had to do was carry a white
jacket and but I guess you know it's not corny I like
the military
routine And I got a charge out of stand and retreat
and everything. Did you like the hazing?
No, I didn't. And I thought that was, to me that was I
think one of the foolish childish things about A&M
in the early days. It was a falsified macho
syndrome that I think that a lot of people latched
on to. I know in our organization and in my freshman
class we had a couple of guys that I knew were going
to be just real horses asses when they became
sophomores as far as the hazing is concerned and
they both
He was dead. He died in the war, died on Bataan. Kid
from Dallas named George Brundrett. Heck of a nice
guy. He was my roommate for a few months. But he was
killed in one of those prisoner of war ships that we
torpedoed unknowingly. The Japs were
transporting some of our prisoners from the
Philippines back to Japan. and the ship was
torpedoed by one of our own submarines. George was
on one of them.
No, I think the hazing was not a good thing. I don't
think it really hurt anybody, but it certainly
didn't do anybody any good. What were some other
things about the Corps that you disliked?
Oh,
I don't, I don't guess there's anything
significantly that I dislike per se. In what way do
you think that the Corps helped you in your
military career, or is there any way that it might
have hindered your career? I think it definitely
helped it. I think that our, our, that the, that the
military program and the military the situation
at A&M in those days, the Corps in those days,
particularly in the military science courses
that we pursued after
the second two years, after the first two years,
made us superior officers in our particular
branches. In other words, I was field artillery.
And I know the year that we graduated, we went to
summer camp that year directly. We graduated and
had final review. And I think the next morning, we
were to report at Fort St. Houston. A bunch of us
were. They gave us the option of going later in the
summer. And I said, well, I don't have a job yet.
Don't have to report till September. So we just
went directly to camp. And I know down in Fort Sam,
we went out on the firing range at Bullis and firing
some problems, some artillery problems out
there. Numerous times, we would be at the
observation point and there'd be some graduates
from the current class at West Point also there.
There was a bunch of them. They were out there and
they were trying to fire a problem and losing every
round and not knowing where in the hell we were and
the regular army officers would have one of us take
over. And we were far superior to all of them in the
particular technique and knowledge of our
particular branch. Of course, they were a little
better overall because They certainly had more
and more concentrated, but in each particular
branch, the graduate from Texas A&M was superior
to the graduate of the military academy. Now, why
were they a little bit better overall? They were a
little bit better overall because they covered
other curriculum in the military that we didn't
particularly cover in A&M. better drill and
formality and military law and all this sort of
stuff. But in the pick and shovel nut and bolts of
the artillery or the field artillery or coast
artillery or even infantry officer, the
graduate's man knew more about the tactical
application of his particular branch than did the
graduate of the military academy and I've had
regular army tactical officers tell me that and I
know later during the war
some of my peers that were west pointers you know
they were they'd look down their nose at you and not
in a in an outward way but in an inward way The
biggest feeling you get from that in the military
was in the wives of West Pointers. Really? In their
relationship with the wives of, we'll say, an A&M
man. An officer from A&M. Yeah, some of the snippy
little things with just, you know, my husband's a
West Pointer and your husband was an ROTC officer
and so forth. And
most of the West Pointers, they pressed too hard. I
have had a lot of good friends from the military
academy in the service. Really, I can truthfully
say I don't, am not conscious of any prejudice that
they directed specifically towards me in any way
because I was not a member, was not from the
military academy. But there certainly was a lot of
it and it was always present. But I always tried to
feel like that, you know, we could hold our own
against anything they could do. And I know and
when it came out and it was an actual fact that Texas
A&M furnished more officers for the military than
did the military academy in World War II. This is an
actual, there was some Aggie that was in the A.G.